[ADD] rental: create rental order page (#17637)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/sales/rental/rental_orders/create_rental_order.rst

disappears, and the rental's designated time period is displayed in the :guilabel:`Duration` field.

Next, add a rental product in the :guilabel:`Order Lines` tab by clicking :guilabel:`Add a product`
and selecting the desired rental product to add to the form.

.. note::
   If a rental product is added *before* the :guilabel:`Rental period` field is properly configured,
   the user can *still* adjust it accordingly.

   Select the desired date range to represent the rental duration, then click :guilabel:`Update
   Rental Prices` in the :guilabel:`Duration` field.

   .. image:: create_rental_order/rental-update-rental-prices.png
      :alt: The update rental prices option that appears in the Odoo Rental application.

   Doing so reveals a :guilabel:`Confirmation` pop-up window. If everything is correct, click
   :guilabel:`Ok`, and Odoo recalculates the rental price accordingly.

Once all the information has been entered correctly on the rental order form, click :guilabel:`Send`
to send the quotation to the customer. When the customer confirms the quotation, click
:guilabel:`Confirm` to finalize the order. A :guilabel:`Reserved` banner displays on the rental
order.

> Customer signature

Reviewer: <img width="356" height="356" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/419fc7b5-8d82-4cd2-9898-0057e968ab9f" />

noticing that the verb tenses aren't matching throughout the headings, so let's change this into verb form

```suggestion
Request a customer signature
```

==================

Odoo can request the customer sign a rental agreement, outlining the arrangement between the company
and customer, *before* they pick up the rental products. Such documents can ensure everything is
returned on time and in its original condition.

.. note::
   Requesting a signature can be done during any stage of the order. This feature also requires the
   :doc:`Sign <../../../productivity/sign>` app.

If signatures are required, go to the **Rental** app and from the default :guilabel:`Rental Orders`
dashboard, select the desired rental order. Go to the :icon:`fa-cog` :guilabel:`(Actions)` icon, and

> click :guilabel:`Request Signature`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
click :icon:`fa-file-text` :guilabel:`Request Signature`.
```

.. image:: create_rental_order/request-signature.png
   :alt: The Request Signature option in the Odoo Rental application.

> In the *Sign Documents* pop-up window, either :ref:`select an existing document template

Reviewer: in the version im seeing, the popup window is labeled: 

<img width="1209" height="235" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e4e30dce-623b-4fb4-8f2d-65a828465134" />

```suggestion
In the *New Signature Request* pop-up window, either :ref:`select an existing document template
```

<sign/request-signatures/template-odoo-record>` or :ref:`create a new one
<sign/request-signatures/one-off-record>`.

After sending the request, a link to the signature request appears in the record's chatter. The
document is accessible to the customer via the customer portal or email.

.. seealso::
   `Odoo Tutorials: Sign <https://www.odoo.com/slides/sign-61>`_

> Managing employee shifts for rental services

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Manage employee shifts for rental services
```

changing all verb tenses to imperative/present

Confirmed rental orders containing :doc:`service products <../configure_products/service_products>`
trigger the automatic creation of shifts. These shifts are generated for the assigned employee role
when the availability matches the designated rental period. This automation is made possible by the
integration with the **Planning** app and by configuring the service product.

Click the :icon:`fa-tasks` :guilabel:`Planned` smart button to open the *Schedule by Resource* page.
The page defaults to a *Gantt* view of all the open shifts and shifts for the associated role that
are available for the rental period of the rental order. :ref:`Customize the shifts
<planning/shifts>` as needed.

.. tip::
   Project templates allow for automated task assignment. When integrated with the **Planning** app,
   the system automatically schedules and publishes an employee’s shift if their availability
   matches the rental period. Priority is given to employees with the relevant :ref:`roles
   <planning/planning-roles>` if applicable.

.. image:: create_rental_order/schedule-by-resource.png
   :alt: The Schedule by Resource page with a photographer shift in the Rental app.

> Managing a project created from the rental order

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Manage a project created from the rental order
```

================================================

.. important::
   For the appropriate smart buttons to display, the **Project**, **Timesheet**, **Planning**, and
   **Inventory** apps are needed. The selected service product on the rental order must be
   :ref:`properly configured <rental/service_products/service>` to integrate with the recommended
   apps.

When a rental order is confirmed, the following smart buttons appear at the top of the form:

- :icon:`fa-puzzle-piece` :guilabel:`Tasks`: Linked to the **Projects** app and shows any projects
  or tasks related to the rental order.
- :icon:`fa-clock-o` :guilabel:`Recorded`: Linked to the **Timesheets** app and shows how many hours
  are related to the rental order.
- :icon:`fa-tasks` :guilabel:`Planned`: Linked to the **Planning** app and shows how many shifts are
  related to the rental order.
- :icon:`fa-truck` :guilabel:`Delivery`: Linked to the **Inventory** app and shows any delivery and

>   receipt orders related to the rental order.

Reviewer: I think this block does a good job orienting the reader by explicitly explaining that these smart buttons appear after clicking Confirm. 

One thing I’m wondering about structurally: is there a specific reason the "Managing employee shifts for rental services" section comes before this block that explains the smart buttons?

In particular, we directly reference and have some instructions involving the Planning smart button and planning behavior in the "Managing employee shifts for rental services" section before the reader is fully oriented on what confirming the rental order actually generates or what these smart buttons represent. Then, in this "Managing a project created from the rental order" section, we step back and explains the broader “what happens after confirmation” flow.

Because of that, I wonder if this block would be more helpful:
- closer to the "click :guilabel:Confirm" instruction on line 54, or
- earlier in the the "Managing employee shifts for rental services" section

That way, readers get the causal overview first (“confirming creates these linked records/buttons”), before diving into the more specific Planning workflow.

I may just be missing the intended flow/vision here that you'd have, but I found myself slightly disoriented when reading through it sequentially.

Click the :icon:`fa-puzzle-piece` :guilabel:`Tasks` smart button to view a Kanban view of all the
tasks automatically created when confirming the rental order. :doc:`Customize the project's tasks
<../../../services/project/tasks/task_creation>` as needed.

.. tip::
   Configuring the use of :doc:`../../../services/project/project_management/project_templates` on
   the product form creates new projects with predefined tasks, priority levels, and assigned
   employees.

.. image:: create_rental_order/task-related-to-rental-order.png
   :alt: Photography task generated from the rental order.

> Entering the time for the rental service task

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enter the time for the rental service task
```
alternatively:"Record time for rental services"

---------------------------------------------

To enter time worked on a :doc:`service product <../configure_products/service_products>`, select
the respective service task, then click the :guilabel:`Timesheets` tab. Click :guilabel:`Add a line`
to enter the:

- :guilabel:`Date`: The date the work was performed.

> - :guilabel:`Employee`: The employee who performed the work. Description: A brief description of the

Reviewer: missing bullet:

```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Employee`: The employee who performed the work.
- 
- :guilabel:`Description`: A brief description of the
```

  work performed.
- :guilabel:`Time Spent`: The number of hours worked on the task for that entry.

Click the :icon:`fa-dollar` :guilabel:`Sales Order` smart button to return to the rental order.

.. note::
   Once time is added in the :guilabel:`Timesheets` tab of a task, the rental order status is
   automatically changed to :guilabel:`Picked-up`, and the :guilabel:`Return` button appears.

.. image:: create_rental_order/rental-task-timesheets-tab.png
   :alt: Sample of a task Timesheet tab for a rental order in the Rental app.

> Tracking delivered time on a rental order

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Track delivered time on a rental order
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> When time is entered on the :guilabel:`Timesheets tab` of an associated task, the delivered time is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When time is entered on the :guilabel:`Timesheets` tab of an associated task, the delivered time is
```

automatically tracked on the rental order. To view the delivered time, navigate to the desired

> rental order and click the :icon:`fa-clock-o` :guilabel:`Recorded` icon smart button at the top of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
rental order and click the :icon:`fa-clock-o` :guilabel:`Recorded` smart button at the top of
```

the rental order. The total hours worked appear in the :guilabel:`Recorded Time` field.

Create an invoice
=================

Navigate to the desired invoice in the **Rental** app. On the :guilabel:`Rental Orders` dashboard,

> in the :guilabel:`INVOICE STATUS` section, click :guilabel:`To Invoice` to view all rental orders

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in the :guilabel:`INVOICE STATUS` section in the left navigation bar, click :guilabel:`To Invoice` to view all rental orders
```

that need to be sent.

.. image:: create_rental_order/invoice-status-section.png
   :alt: Sample of the INVOICE STATUS section in the Rental app.

Click the desired rental order, then click :guilabel:`Create Invoice`. Select :guilabel:`Regular
invoice` from the :guilabel:`Create invoice(s)` window and click :guilabel:`Create Draft`.

.. image:: create_rental_order/create-invoices.png
   :alt: Sample of Create invoices window in the Rental app.

Finalize the amount of time for physical service products
---------------------------------------------------------

For physical service products, such as hotel rooms, workstations, and conference rooms, a final

> adjustment to the time (usually a Nightly rental period) may be needed on the invoice.

Reviewer: any particular reason why "nightly" is capitalized here? is it an industry thing? or a product, or in-Odoo field? unless it's a proper noun or Odoo field (in which case it should be italicized), this doesn't need to be capitalized

Enter the amount in the :guilabel:`Quantity` column. If new charges were accrued during the rental
period, click :guilabel:`Add a line` to include them in the invoice draft.

.. image:: create_rental_order/draft-invoice-for-hotel-room.png
   :alt: Draft invoice for a hotel room for one night stay.

Confirm and pay
---------------

If all the details are correct on the invoice draft, click :guilabel:`Confirm` and click
:guilabel:`Send` to email the invoice to the customer, or :guilabel:`Print` and then click
:guilabel:`Pay` if the customer is in person. In the :guilabel:`Pay` pop-up window, select a
:guilabel:`Journal` and click :guilabel:`Create Payment`.

.. image:: create_rental_order/pay-page.png
   :alt: Sample of the Pay page in the Rental app.

Click the :guilabel:`Payments` smart button that appears at the top of the rental order. Click
:guilabel:`Validate` on the Payment page.

.. image:: create_rental_order/payment-page-validate.png
   :alt: Sample of the Payment page in the Rental app.

.. seealso::

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

=====================
Create a rental order
=====================

> In Odoo **Rental**, quotations can be created and sent to customers. Similar to Sales quotations,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Odoo **Rental**, quotations can be created and sent to customers. Similar to **Sales** quotations,
```

once a quotation is confirmed, it becomes a *rental order* and can be invoiced and paid for. Only
after a rental order is confirmed can rental products be picked up.

> Quotation settings

Reviewer 2: since this section is so short, might be able to just make it an admonition block (notes or important)

==================

> To configure quotation settings, the **Sales** app ***must** be installed. Refer to the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To configure quotation settings, the **Sales** app **must** be installed. Refer to the
```

:ref:`sales/quotation-settings` for detailed instructions.

Create a rental quote
=====================

> .. important::

Reviewer 2: i would move this below the "rental period" paragraph lower

--> Orders`, and click :guilabel:`New`. Doing so reveals a blank rental order form.

.. image:: create_rental_order/rental-order.png
   :alt: Sample of a filled out rental order available in the Odoo Rental application.

Start by adding a :guilabel:`Customer`, then set the desired rental duration in the
:guilabel:`Rental period` field. To adjust the rental duration, click the first date in the
:guilabel:`Rental period` field, and select the range of dates and times to represent the rental
duration from the pop-up calendar form that appears.

.. image:: create_rental_order/rental-period-field-popup.png
   :alt: Sample of a rental period calendar pop-up window in the Odoo Rental application.

Once complete, click :guilabel:`Apply` in the calendar pop-up form. After that, the pop-up form
disappears, and the rental's designated time period is displayed in the :guilabel:`Duration` field.

Next, add a rental product in the :guilabel:`Order Lines` tab by clicking :guilabel:`Add a product`
and selecting the desired rental product to add to the form.

.. note::
   If a rental product is added *before* the :guilabel:`Rental period` field is properly configured,

>    the user can *still* adjust the it accordingly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   the user can *still* adjust it accordingly.
```

   Select the desired date range to represent the rental duration, then click :guilabel:`Update
   Rental Prices` in the :guilabel:`Duration` field.

   .. image:: create_rental_order/rental-update-rental-prices.png
      :alt: The update rental prices option that appears in the Odoo Rental application.

   Doing so reveals a :guilabel:`Confirmation` pop-up window. If everything is correct, click
   :guilabel:`Ok`, and Odoo recalculates the rental price accordingly.

Once all the information has been entered correctly on the rental order form, click :guilabel:`Send`
to send the quotation to the customer. When the customer confirms the quotation, click

> :guilabel:`Confirm` to finalize the order. A :guilabel:`Pickup` banner displays on the rental order.

Reviewer 2: I could not get the Pickup banner to appear, even after trying to create an invoice and changing the "delivered" field for the product.

Customer signature
==================

> Odoo has the ability to request the customer sign a rental agreement, outlining the arrangement

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Odoo can request the customer sign a rental agreement, outlining the arrangement
```

between the company and customer, *before* they pick up the rental products. Such documents can
ensure everything is returned on time and in its original condition.

.. note::
   Requesting a signature can be done during any stage of the order. This feature also requires the
   :doc:`Sign <../../../productivity/sign>` app.

If signatures are required, go to the **Rental** app and from the default :guilabel:`Rental Orders`
dashboard, select the desired rental order. Go to the :icon:`fa-cog` :guilabel:`(Actions)` icon, and
click :guilabel:`Request Signature`.

.. image:: create_rental_order/request-signature.png
   :alt: The Request Signature option in the Odoo Rental application.

In the *Sign Documents* pop-up window, either :ref:`select an existing document template

> <sign/request-signatures/template-odoo-record>`  or :ref:`create a new one

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<sign/request-signatures/template-odoo-record>` or :ref:`create a new one
```

<sign/request-signatures/one-off-record>`.

After sending the request, a link to the signature request appears in the record's chatter. The
document is accessible to the customer via the customer portal or email.

.. seealso::
   `Odoo Tutorials: Sign <https://www.odoo.com/slides/sign-61>`_

Managing employee shifts for rental services
============================================

Confirmed rental orders containing service products trigger the automatic creation of shifts. These
shifts are generated for the assigned employee role when the availability matches the designated
rental period. This automation is made possible by the integration with the **Planning** app and by
configuring the service product.

> Click the :icon:`fa-tasks` :guilabel:`Planned` smart button to open the *Schedule by Resource* page.

Reviewer 2: The smart button read "To Plan" when i tested it (I tried a few different service products and it always said to plan). I don't know if it changes based on product settings?

Reviewer: hmm, i got "Planned"! so it looks like the documentation is fine (: not sure how you got yours to say "To Plan" 🤔 I did follow megan's "Configure rental products > Service rental products" to make a service product for my testing though

<img width="1253" height="380" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/366b0277-e12a-452d-b9d9-1de3a10bd7e5" />

are available for the rental period of the rental order. :ref:`Customize the shifts
<planning/shifts>` as needed.

.. tip::
   Project templates allow for automated task assignment. When integrated with the **Planning** app,
   the system automatically schedules and publishes an employee’s shift if their availability
   matches the rental period. Priority is given to employees with the relevant :ref:`roles
   <planning/planning-roles>` if applicable.

.. image:: create_rental_order/schedule-by-resource.png
   :alt: The Schedule by Resource page with a photographer shift in the Rental app.

Managing a project created from the rental order
================================================

.. important::
   For the appropriate smart buttons to display, the **Project**, **Timesheet**, **Planning**, and
   **Inventory** apps are needed. The selected service product on the rental order must be
   :ref:`properly configured <rental/service_products/service>` to integrate with the recommended
   apps.

When a rental order is confirmed, the following smart buttons appear at the top of the form:

> 

Reviewer 2: This list is formatting with the whole line bold (from the icon/guilabel markup). I think it is because of the spaceing in the lines. The second line should start under the first : (see image - line 121 is corrected) 

<img width="1140" height="222" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2bba79d2-95b7-4599-a4c4-80c9abcb9650" />

- :icon:`fa-puzzle-piece` :guilabel:`Tasks`: Linked to the **Projects** app and shows any projects

>      or tasks related to the rental order.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :icon:`fa-puzzle-piece` :guilabel:`Tasks`: Linked to the **Projects** app and shows any projects or tasks related to the rental order.
```

- :icon:`fa-clock-o` :guilabel:`Recorded`: Linked to the **Timesheets** app and shows how many hours

>      are related to the rental order.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :icon:`fa-clock-o` :guilabel:`Recorded`: Linked to the **Timesheets** app and shows how many hours are related to the rental order.
```

- :icon:`fa-tasks` :guilabel:`Planned`: Linked to the **Planning** app and shows how many shifts are

>      related to the rental order.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :icon:`fa-tasks` :guilabel:`Planned`: Linked to the **Planning** app and shows how many shifts are related to the rental order.
```

- :icon:`fa-truck` :guilabel:`Delivery`: Linked to the **Inventory** app and shows any delivery and

>      receipt orders related to the rental order.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :icon:`fa-truck` :guilabel:`Delivery`: Linked to the **Inventory** app and shows any delivery and receipt orders related to the rental order.
```

Click the :icon:`fa-puzzle-piece` :guilabel:`Tasks` smart button to view a Kanban view of all the
tasks automatically created when confirming the rental order. :doc:`Customize the project's tasks
<../../../services/project/tasks/task_creation>` as needed.

.. tip::
   Configuring the use of :doc:`../../../services/project/project_management/project_templates` on
   the product form creates new projects with predefined tasks, priority levels, and assigned
   employees.

.. image:: create_rental_order/task-related-to-rental-order.png
   :alt: Photography task generated from the rental order.

Entering the time for the rental service task
---------------------------------------------

To enter time worked on a service product, select the respective service task, then click the
:guilabel:`Timesheets` tab. Click :guilabel:`Add a line` to enter the:

- Date: The date the work was performed.
- Employee: The employee who performed the work. Description: A brief description of the work
  performed.

> - Time Spent: The number of hours worked on the task for that entry.

Reviewer 2: would guilabel these (field/column titles)

Click the :icon:`fa-dollar` :guilabel:`Sales Order` smart button to return to the rental order.

.. note::
   Once time is added in the :guilabel:`Timesheets` tab of a task, the rental order status is
   automatically changed to :guilabel:`Picked-up`, and the :guilabel:`Return` button appears.

.. image:: create_rental_order/rental-task-timesheets-tab.png
   :alt: Sample of a task Timesheet tab for a rental order in the Rental app.

Tracking delivered time on a rental order
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When time is entered on the :guilabel:`Timesheets tab` of an associated task, the delivered time is
automatically tracked on the rental order. To view the delivered time, navigate to the desired

> rental order and click the  :icon:`fa-clock-o` :guilabel:`Recorded` icon smart button at the top of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
rental order and click the :icon:`fa-clock-o` :guilabel:`Recorded` icon smart button at the top of
```

the rental order. The total hours worked appear in the :guilabel:`Recorded Time` field.

> .. image:: create_rental_order/rental-order-time-delivered.png

Reviewer 2: I don't think this image is needed. Since it is so wide you can't really see that much.

period, click :guilabel:`Add a line` to include them in the invoice draft.

.. image:: create_rental_order/draft-invoice-for-hotel-room.png
   :alt: Draft invoice for a hotel room for one night stay.

Confirm and pay
---------------

If all the details are correct on the invoice draft, click :guilabel:`Confirm` and click
:guilabel:`Send` to email the invoice to the customer, or :guilabel:`Print` and then click
:guilabel:`Pay` if the customer is in person. In the :guilabel:`Pay` pop-up window, select a
:guilabel:`Journal` and click :guilabel:`Create Payment`.

.. image:: create_rental_order/pay-page.png
   :alt: Sample of the Pay page in the Rental app.

Click the :guilabel:`Payments` smart button that appears at the top of the rental order. Click
:guilabel:`Validate` on the Payment page.

.. image:: create_rental_order/payment-page-validate.png
   :alt: Sample of the Payment page in the Rental app.

.. seealso::

   - `Odoo Tutorials: Create a Rental Order <https://youtu.be/hpQHu6U_IKk?si=Fy_Z82kzQNPBrD8v>`_
   - `Odoo Tutorials: Configuring a Rental Product
     <https://youtu.be/CE-SahTUC9A?si=ur6ci-SlKJSvQY5Q>`_

> 

Reviewer 2: it looks like there might be an extra blank line at the end of the doc (there only needs to be one, it looks like there might be two when I pull the branch down in vscode)
